---
layout: post
title:  "My major shortcomings"
date:   2019-09-06 00:50:54
categories: essay 
tags: essay 
---

* content
{:toc}
This passage is about two real and contradictory aspects of me.




## Why I think so?   

I think my personal value is abated after endless process of comparing with some of my friends who are intelligent and do better than me in almost every aspects in life. 

Here is a good example. Yesterday I learned that my grade for the last school year was the third in my class. In particular, I was very close to the second place with a difference of about 0.3. I should have been very happy, but compared with the good students, my happiness was swept away!

The last time I wrote a diary was in junior three during which I made great progress in my studies. So, I hope in this days(I mean now) I can have a good academic performance in the next GRE and TOEFL tests.

### About academic

Two things that make me devalue myself are as follows.
The first thing is that my excellent classmates can easily get several internship opportunities, however, I cannot get one. To be frank, this really hurts my pride. At this stage, I can only tell myself that God wants to give sugar to those children who have experienced setbacks.
The second thing is that several TOEFL exams have not passed 100.

In this situation, I often feel anxious and question whether I am not good enough. Of course, I will never question my intelligence because intelligence is not the reason why my academic level stays at this relatively low stage. Diligence is. Sometimes I wonder if I am too strict with myself and I even think that I will treat my children more strictly in the future. So my main contradiction is that I have too high self-expectation and low execution.

In many cases, I will indulge myself in comparision with good people and deprecate my personal value, through which I think I can get positive incentives. Recently, I realized that it was not a opportune way because this would make me anxious and lack self-confidence. So in the future, I want to reduce the comparison and focus more on my own affairs.

### About affection

To be honest, I am a novice in love as I cannot figure out the truth of love and I cannot even control my emotions well in love. 

Sometimes, I think I am just a cynic. I always criticize other people's low-end taste in reading, watching movies and playing games, as well as low political awareness. And worst of all, I just criticized a literary girl whose taste for reading is good in my heart just yesterday because I used to have the characteristics of literary youth. I hate some of the characteristics of my past, which develops into an annoyance to others. In fact, I have no legitimate reason to hate the literary youth. If I have been so prejudiced, I bet I cannot find a girlfriend because no one is perfect.